[270:55530]
Hi. My name is dodge Landesman and as mentioned before I've been going to New Hampshire a handful of times to really try to get these candidates running for president and to try to hear what they have to say in their own words. We oftentimes get these sound soundbites from the media that maybe show a two or three minute clip of their speech. But I always feel like it's a good idea to actually put their full words on so you can really judge the candidate for themself for yourself and hear what they have to say. So I actually connected with Bay told Roark in Manchester New Hampshire at a local Mexican restaurant which I thought was kind of interesting. It was a very tightly packed restaurant. But I think due to his experience in El Paso and its connection with the Mexican people he felt just kind of special to do it at a Mexican restaurant that was actually owned by an immigrant. That was from Mexico is in New Hampshire so I thought that was kind of interesting and Beto gave a great speech.

[55830:247590]
He didn't stand in a chair or anything like that or any table. So I think he's been paying attention to some of the media criticism and has listened to it and he was very inspiring. You can see this magnetism you could see his passion. You can see why so many people even though he didn't get elected to the U.S. Senate have glommed on to him because there's this charisma that really is Obama like. He will make that comparison. And I think it's a valid comparison because he really does have that Obama like charisma where he can really inspire people I think in a very significant way. In his speech one of the issues was he talked a lot about progressive issues and he certainly seems mostly progressive on what's very important. So for example he's very pro marijuana legalization actually in Congress. He was one of the strongest Congress people one of the strongest representatives to advocate for for full marijuana legalization. His counterpart in the Senate is Cory Booker who's also been incredibly progressive and active on fill out 100 percent marijuana legalization. So if you're looking on that issue better O'Rourke is great. He has that credibility. And I think that's his knees issue as I mentioned before. Different candidates have their niche issue whether it be Warren with advocating for consumers whether it be Cory Booker and his credibility on the criminal justice system whether it be Andrew Yang and the universal basic income all of them have the selling point. And all of them. Most of these candidates except for a handful can use their experience to say if you're really looking at this one issue and this one issue is the most important to you than I that credibility in my past and Mateo has that for marijuana legalization and a whole host of other issues. Of course he is very progressive on immigration talked about his experience representing a border area. And again as a lot of credibility there. Spoken Spanish speaks fluent Spanish I've been to Mexico a handful of times and speak some so you kind of judge how well somebody can speak the language and it's really perfect. And that's important. I think you'll get a lot of Latinos out to vote. They feel like quite literally hey this guy speaks my language. You know this guy understands me and my needs and in that regard I think also because of his passion. He'd be a very effective general election candidate. But one of the issues is he is talking as he sidestepped a bunch of other issues. Somebody asked him if he supported Medicare for all. And he talked about this sort of happy medium you can have your cake and eat it too by supporting Medicare for America and that's very different than Medicare for all because it still includes some private insurance and you have that option of choosing private insurance. Now as somebody more moderate to me that seems like the smart implementable approach incremental approach. But there are a lot of people who say Well that won't really work and you need to go full you need to be fully public instead of private ties in order for Americans to get the health care that they need. So I'm not as much of an expert as I'd like to be. And health care is one of those intricate issues where you really have to be well-informed.

[248250:531300]
But personally I like what he's saying. If you're ultra progressive I think there are other more candidates and health care is certainly an important facet of the 2020 presidential sweepstakes. Who are more progressive and who fully support 100 percent Medicare for All. Camila Harris Bernie Sanders obviously. Marianne Williamson Andrew Yang everybody in the more progressive class except for Elizabeth Warren who's kind of said different things about it. That's been interesting as well to analyze. I so we talked about his speech and yeah he really does have that passion and that charisma. And he did seem very poised and well-informed even though he sidestepped some issues. He's been great in criminal justice. But one of the issues is I think him in general in these mistakes that he's made and pardon me wonders is he necessarily ready for prime time. I in his announcement video having his wife sit by his side but literally not say a thing to me. Reeks of unintentional sexism I don't think it was intentional I think. But you know it's been a good father and I think you know he is impressed with the wife his wife because she's had an impressive career as well. But you know he when you're running for president of the United States you really have to be careful because all eyes are on you and people from the feminist community. And that's an important issue obviously took very serious issue and that they felt like his wife was being silenced and was being sidelined again that wasn't the intention. But you need to have clear eyes and more open years if you want to represent the Democratic Party. This is Democratic Party of 20 19 not necessarily even 2008 anymore. So a lot of these issues people I think will focus on them a lot more intently. One of the other issues is and I think this highlights some of the sexism in the media coverage is that Bhutto took this very long road trip in between losing the Senate race and running for president and for some reason even getting criticism and I wonder if Kamala Harris had did that. She was in a similar situation or Elizabeth Warren or Tulsi Gabbard would they have been criticized for not being good parents and not taking care of their kids. And you know I don't know if it's a valid criticism or not if it is then it has to apply to men and women obviously. And I don't know. Part of me thinks it is a valid criticism because. You just ran a hardcore campaign for U.S. Senate and then immediately you take off on a road trip and I'm thinking man like you What do you want to see your kids. Isn't that the most important thing. And it seems like this crazy judgment call. I mean if I ever became a parent and I had spent all of this you know campaigns are intense they're 12 hour days at least these intends twelve hour days on the trail I never get to see my kids. You think the moment I'm back I would just especially rather think about running for president which is another huge time commitment. You would think OK I have this three to four month window. I really want to see my kids every single day and as much as possible and they didn't do that and I'm a huge advocate of road trips. That's that's what I've done a lot in my life. I've been to two hundred cities. All right Greyhound bus to Mexico and Canada and the USA. But I don't have kids. And what all of this is is it plays into Vito's immaturity factor which I think is a very legitimate issue to focus on. Is he too much of a kid in some regard with the road trips with the constant cursing I will say in New Hampshire. He did not curse and you know I curse once in a while certainly but better was potty mouth is constant and it's unique amongst candidates. And you want to appear presidential especially running as Trump who is the opposite of presidential. You want to be the opposite of him in every regard. And I don't know at this moment if BDO is really that presidential leaving his kids behind with the cursing with getting himself filmed while he had a root canal. I thought that was really gross and narcissistic. That's awesome that he talked to the dentist aide who was an immigrant herself and had that experience but can't you just film her after you get your root canal instead of looking at it instead of having people look at you. Get your teeth filled. Which I think is really gross. So this very narcissistic millennial it's all about me feeling pervades Bhutto and he needs to grow up I think in a campaign you can grab. You could certainly grow up in a year. And I have a lot of faith for him. He's certainly not my first choice or my top five. He could certainly get there but he needs to be more conscientious of the world around him. And yeah he needs to grow up. So I hope you enjoy your speech. And thanks for watching.

[531300:688730]
Country that has never been more divided and more polarized and more partisan than it is at this moment not to descend into that ugliness and not meanness and pettiness and that name calling not to define ourselves by our fears and our paranoia us and our anxieties not to pit one another against one another but to be known by our ambition our aspirations our common goals the common cause and the common ground upon which we stand before you are a Republican or a Democrat from a big city or a small town you are an American and my fellow human being and we're going to keep these who are joined not separate by the Rio Grande River in our international boundary lines forming something far greater than the sum of the people or the parts involved. Beautiful magical see that Waters is the first place I took Amy my wife now on our first date a blind date going to the Kentucky Club the water where they purport to have invented the margarita. Those. Walking past the customs house where the first time that a president of the United States and the president of Mexico ever met they met there in 1989 and neither Taft nor Diaz needed a translator because each spoke both English and Spanish. Taking Amy past that to the mission of Guadalupe and which has stood the test of time. And three hundred and fifty years and took in the sights and the sounds and the smells of this community that I love so much and that she grew to love because she was not from there and in that community about that so we are now raising Ulysses who's twelve. Molly who's 10. Henry who is eight years old and it happens to be not coincidentally one of the safest cities in the United States of America safe not in spite of the fact that we are a city of immigrants and a quarter of those with whom we live were born somewhere else shows us brought their genius to this country along with the opportunity that their very presence provides their presence in this country. Here in Manchester in my hometown of El Paso makes us stronger makes us more successful and yes makes us more secure when we treat one another with dignity and respect. That's how we secure our communities known this is the dumbest mortal one that almost always. Comes.

[688890:814820]
When he's honest. That's the way that we can show this book. The only positive story of El Paso Manchester of America a country comprised of immigrants and asylum seekers and refugees from the world over we lose sight of that at our peril. We lose sight of that. We start to do things like take kids from their parents after they've travelled two thousand miles of. That on foot. Somewhere out a cop a train known as the beast. Or I guess they are at their most desperate and vulnerable moment taking the very child for whom they risk their lives deporting that parent back to the country from which she fled. Keeping them separated with no hope or prospect of reunification until we make that this country's priority when our laws and our practices and our policies not our values. The reality on the ground the experiences of our lives. We will be a better country not only will we reunite all those kids and stop separating them from their folks but we will also free dreamers from any fear of deportation by making them. Whether it's immigration. Or health care. In this the wealthiest country on the planet which for whatever reason has not found the resources or the will to take care of millions of Americans who cannot see a doctor who even when they are insured cannot afford their prescriptions who cannot take their child to a therapist so that she is well enough to learn the next day. Parents a medically fragile and complex children who live in constant fear that their insurance will not cover the next piece of equipment or procedure. We the people of America not Democrats not Republicans. All of us need to make sure that we have guaranteed high quality universal health care for every single. We. Need to make sure.

[815330:952340]
We need to make sure we have an economy that works for all right now we have an economy that works really well for a few and not well enough for far too many. Imagine having the discretionary income to spend three or four million dollars gaming the college admissions process to get your kid into school and then acknowledge that there are so many families that don't have three or four hundred dollars to make the down payment on tuition on a university or a community college or trade. We need to make sure. That this economy works for everyone because of our democracy is going to survive. Every single family and especially every single child must see a future hope and opportunity in this country and we are closing that out for far too many. Right now you cannot have political democracy without having something approaching economic democracy in this country and the concentration of wealth and power and privilege is going to destroy this country and our democracy. If we do not do something about it because if we want to face this health care challenge we want to fix our immigration system if we want to make sure there are jobs that provide dignity and living wages where every single one of us if we want to guarantee that no school teacher works a second or a third job just to make ends meet and we want to make sure. That in a country that loses thirty thousand of our fellow Americans every year to gun violence then we take the necessary steps of universal background checks and we stop selling weapons of war into our communities. We'd like to get. An opioid crisis that is of our own making. We are 4 percent of the globe's population we consume 85 percent of opioids and that did not happen accidentally. There are corporations Purdue Pharma first and foremost among them who marketed these very addictive drugs to prescribers and doctors as some kind of miracle pill with no side effects. Almost everyone who was using heroin for fentanyl illegally is doing it after being legally prescribed an opioid.

[952460:1045030]
We need to make sure that that is not a criminal justice problem it is a public health opportunity treating people with compassion caring for them putting them on the long term road to recovery at the same time that we hold accountable those who perpetrated this disaster on our communities and understand that right now in the United States of America we have the largest prison population per capita on the planet and it is disproportionately comprised of people of color so many arrested for non-violent drug crimes like possession of marijuana a substance that is legal in most states in this country. How can those poor do exactly get off scot free. Well we are locking people up disproportionately of color for possession of something that will kill nobody and is already legal in so many states folks who when released from jail will be forced to check a box on any employment application form saying they have a conviction making it less likely that they get the job who will not be eligible for student loans or grants or scholarships will have no ability to improve themselves through higher education. All of these things are connected and all of them. Are premised on this democracy. The single greatest mechanism ever devised by humankind to call forth the genius innovation the ingenuity the resolve of the people and if we're going to meet these challenges all of it including the greatest existential one of them all climate change very

[1046150.0000000001:1089370]
Coming from the powerful fuels carbon energy investing in renewable energy and the jobs the high wage high skill high value wind solar bio energy jobs that are connected to a change in our economy and how this planet warms and we're gonna reassert our global leadership. We must fix this democracy because right now it is captured. It is corrupted by corporations by special interests by that concentration of wealth and privilege. I want to thank you via your representative Chris Pappas who was a lead sponsor on H.R.. 6. To end this corruption. The.

[1089470:1116200]
Captured by special interests to ensure that members of Congress no longer choose their constituents by ending political gerrymandering and racial gerrymandering which we experienced in Texas getting big unaccountable money out of our politics ensuring that everyone who should be able to vote can in addition to what he's done. We need a new voting rights act in this country. And. Making sure.

[1116380:1119860]
Everyone is represented and reflected in our democracy.

[1120070:1183510]
But beyond the laws pass and then I want to sign into law I want to make sure that we walk the talk. What we have the chance right now that's why this campaign receives no contributions from lobbyists or political action committees or corporations it's all people from every single state all the time. Not only is that the best way to campaign. Perhaps the only way to win it is going to be the only way that we are prepared to lead this country together to heal the divisions that we find right now and to bring us around the common cause the common challenges and the common goals so that our kids and grandkids the people of the future look back on us. The people of 2019 with pride and with gratitude and do not find themselves wondering who were those been those in ways. That. We had because we are the last. Best hope of this planet of this earth. And it's on us. And I know that we're going to be up to this moment a match for the challenge. You with me. Yeah. Well. We're.

[1183970:1185770]
Looking forward to the conversation.

[1186100:1285680]
I tried to do two martinis Consuelos to every one of you who has welcomed us out today looking forward to hearing what's on your mind. Doing my best to answer your questions and having a conversation. If I could I'd like to begin with the first question that was asked of me as I was introducing myself when I talked about health care. The question was Well how are you going to do. Your two extraordinary members of Congress. Jan Schakowsky an Illinois Rosa DeLauro from advocate group introduced the proposal called Medicare for America. What this does is it ensures that we get to that goal of guaranteed. High quality health care for every single American as quickly as possible. If you have. Employer based and funded insurance and you like it you like your doctors would like the network that you're in. Keep it if you do not like your doctors or your network or your insurance. You can enroll in Medicare if you have no insurance or coverage at all. You enroll in Medicare. We make Medicare the program of choice by investing in it strengthening it so that people elect to move over over time and that becomes the system in our country. Now there are different ways to get here and I heard some folks shout out different policies. That's fine. Well let's find a way to not allow the perfect to become the enemy of the good. Human lives depend on it right now in a country that loses our fellow Americans to diabetes to the flu to curable cancers for as long as we wait to get to a solution. So thank you for asking the question really. Yes sir.

[1286090:1304780]
You're going to get elected based on how you feel about domestic issues. And if you're fortunate enough to be president you're gonna be spending more than half your time dealing with international issues. My question is what qualifies you to do the leaders of the free world. Thank you for the question.

[1306760:1351460]
This is a golden opportunity for this country to reassert its leadership in the world leadership that was purchased on the sacrifice and on the lives of tens of thousands of Americans whether they stormed the beaches in Normandy whether they served in Vietnam whether their lives on the line right now tonight where it is tonight in Afghanistan and Iraq and Syria. We cannot be the generation that squandered that leadership. We cannot turn our backs on our allies as our current president has done questioning the wisdom of NATO whose fifth article has only been invoked once the common defense when this country was attacked in 9/11. And then we subsequently invaded Afghanistan with every single one of our allies at our back.

[1351460:1357510]
I want to make sure that we have a foreign policy that is oriented towards our real priorities. This hemisphere.

[1357610:1384130]
The people to whom we are literally connected by land. It should not have surprised us that tens of thousands of families migrated two thousand miles to seek shelter and refuge and asylum in this country. The drug wars that we have fought our interventions in their civil wars in Nicaragua and El Salvador the instability we provoked in Guatemala and Honduras. We are reaping the consequences of those foreign policy decisions.

[1384220:1390500]
Right now I want to make sure that we end the wars that we are in 18 years and counting in Afghanistan.

[1390520:1419110]
Twenty seven almost 28 years and counting in Iraq trillions of dollars of spent thousands of lives lost tens of thousands of lives taken in our name as we do that I want to make sure that we care for every single woman and man who has borne that battle in a country that loses 20 veterans a day every single day by their own hand 16 of those 20 unable or for whatever reason unwilling to get into a V.A. and see that provider who can save their lives.

[1419110:1538380]
Lastly I want to make sure that we resolve otherwise intractable problems as peacefully as possible our proceeding president faced with the threat of a nuclear armed Iran without firing a shot without invading yet another Middle East country stop that country from its pursuit of nuclear weapons did not solve every problem related to it. We're still working on it but perhaps that could serve as a model for nonviolent non-military resolution of our crises abroad. And lastly and most important I mentioned the challenge of climate change. If you're my age 46 years old or older you might be fine. If you're younger. If you're the child my kids of someone my age the grandchildren the generations to come the problems that we have right now. The unprecedented wildfires raging across California. The floods that we see in the Midwest the 58 inches of rain dropped on Houston Texas which is the landfall record for as long as we've been keeping them and it was second 20 17 the third 500 year flood in just the last five years. The droughts to undermine our farmers ability to grow our own food and fibre. The problems that we have today the four hundred thousand apprehensions on the southern border will be nothing compared to what our kids will face when there are some countries on this planet that will no longer support human life when we can no longer grow what we need in the places that we're planting today when natural disasters prevent people from living anywhere near the ocean whether it's here in New Hampshire or my home state of Texas. We still have time to act. But even if the United States did everything we possibly could it would not be enough. We need to bring the rest of the world with us so reasserting our role on the global stage. Building respect for the United States after so much of it has been squandered and this administration has to be our priority in the next. Thank you for asking.

[1539110:1547310]
We were on to something in this nine month doorknocking upward twin with a month to go in the election I walked in to a restaurant like this one.

[1547330:1567100]
It was it was a Monday morning and this guy stopped me says are you'd better work than I am. He said Well last week Thursday you knocked on my grandmother's door and she invited you in. She told you about her grandson who's a Marine her daughter who's a schoolteacher. You listened you took it in and then you knocked on her neighbor's door and the next neighbor's door.

[1567310:1584590]
Well I and my 32 cousins went to her house that Sunday Menudo and she made each of us promise that we would vote for you know the guy had never heard of me before he was going to vote for me. He said Whatever you do do not mess this up because you've got an entire family.

[1584890:1670440]
With you. When we ran for Senate in Texas giving up what is called a safe seat although I take nothing or no one for granted to run in a state that was so reliably red they had not elected a Democrat to the Senate since nineteen eighty eight. Everybody thought this was a pipe dream wasn't worth doing. When you add to that that we took not a dime from a political action committee they thought there was no way we were going to finance it. What we did is show up in every single one of the two hundred and fifty four counties Texas. No matter how red. Or how blue no man fought them no matter how big or how small we showed up. King County voted for Trump. Ninety six percent in the last election we showed up in Guthrie the county seat. Listen to those because everyone you would agree with me is deserving of our respect of being heard of being fought for and being served regardless of where they live or who they voted for or who they voted for next time. We didn't win the race we lost by two point six percent. But I'll tell you what we've got to be part of something absolutely extraordinary. Our state 15th in the nation in voter turnout before this election on purpose by design. Some people because of their race ethnicity drawn out of their congressional districts. We transcended some of those barriers. We saw young voter turnout up 500 percent from the last election. We do not treat young people.

[1670800:1747540]
As the leaders of tomorrow. To the young people as leaders of today because that's what they are. On any issue that matters and though we did not win we saw two safe Republican seats now held by Democrats and in Houston Texas. Harris County 17 African American women won judicial positions literally changing the face of criminal justice. No question. So. The question is what are the lessons that you take home that take no one for granted right. Nobody off shore up for everyone everywhere. Demonstrate profound respect for those whom you hope to serve. Learn from them by listening to them. Take the examples that you find and apply them to your campaign and to the challenges that face this country. That's the way we're running this one you will not hear me. To meet another person another candidate for office because come summer 2020 all of us are going to be on the same page. Get behind the candidate regardless of who she or he is we want them to be as successful as possible not only in defeating President Trump but on day one of 20 21 leading this great country towards greatness. Thank you. Obviously. Number. One.

[1751440:1776740]
I'm in now and I'm not it's going to be nine months. No. How does it happen three to 10 years in Massachusetts. What can we do about it.

[1776810:1836280]
Your question is about affordable housing and you're courageous in sharing your personal story. The debt that you're in and some of the obstacles that you confront. So so two things. One how do we make sure that those who want to build wealth have a home an investment that not only can they enjoy but they can pass on to their kids. How do we do that. And then for those who own a home but are under crushing debt how do we help them to refinance their mortgages or afford to stay in their communities. And how do we meet the challenge of some communities growing faster than government is able to keep pace to ensure that you can afford to stay in your home. Texas like New Hampshire does not have a state income tax. We ask a lot of our property tax payers and in some cases we tax people out of their homes when the state and the federal government shed their burden and their share of the cost of public education city government infrastructure or our needs.

[1837150:1902500]
I want to make sure that housing and urban development makes an investment in every single community understands that the dignity of our fellow Americans in private is premised not only on health care not only on having a job that pays a living wage but having a roof over your head and your ability to build equity. I want to make sure that especially in communities that have been hit hard or communities of color that have really relative to white communities never had a chance to advance from redlining and racist lending practices that we address and correct some of those ills now. Doing this is not going to be inexpensive. But I feel that the investment in these communities strengthens them deepens the property tax base allows more of us to shoulder our fair share of the burden. So rest a little bit lighter on everyone else. I'll make sure that we select a secretary of HUD who makes this a priority. Secretary of HUD who has and believes in and enforces through a civil rights division which is being undermined right now in the Trump administration.

[1902820:1921610]
And I'll make sure because this is all connected that everyone can count on a wage that pays enough to live that life of dignity to meet your mortgage payments. The sooner we get to 15 dollars an hour as the floor for wages paid in this country the sooner more people are going to be able to afford their mortgages.

[1927810:1932210]
Thank you for calling. How do you feel.

[1933120:1947110]
Yes so good I just want to get okay. Get it done. Take out his full name in less waistline. OK so deferred action for childhood arrivals.

[1947130:1963090]
This is the more than 1 million of our fellow Americans who we call DREAMers every bit as American as anyone else except for their immigration status document and prove that they can stay here without legal problems without the fear of deportation. Not only.

[1963660:1985160]
As president would I ensure Doctor implemented by President Obama. It's not unheard of but I would have passed the executive order to make sure that we have legislation like it signed into law. Cuban permanently what they achieve by making those U.S. citizens the benefit of Cruz not just to those dreamers. But to all of us. Who.

[1985480:1988830]
Will be the beneficiaries of what they do they create.

[1988860:1994460]
Got to remind ourselves those dreamers are not just the students in the classroom. They're very often the teachers teaching this to.

[1995000:2004460]
In the classroom they're not just being protected by service members were deployed around the world. They are very often deployed around the world as well. They are our fellow Americans.

[2004540:2039490]
Let's make them U.S. citizens and gain the maximum benefit of what they can contribute to this great country I work in education and the past two years I worked in some of the public elementary schools here in Manchester some of which lack a lot of resources and very much our environments where there is present guidance counselors and where students are not given what they're needed. So I'm I'm wondering what we're going to do to address the School to Prison Pipeline and also to ensure that our public schools are not places where students are set up to fail. Great question.

[2044950:2169190]
First of all I want to make sure that we include some of the successes that we're seeing. My three kids in El Paso go to world class public schools same public school that I went to Macedo Elementary. Only now unlike in my time there it's a true dual language program. And here we are in the largest binational community there learning math in Spanish they're learning math and English they're learning and thinking existing in both languages and in both cultures and it's powerful and I'm really really proud of that. And that came up not just or that was devised not by somebody in elected office that came from school teachers educators folks in the community who showed true leadership. And we see that all over the country. Why why in this country are we asking school teachers and educators and cafeteria workers and nurses and librarians and therapists to work a second or third job to finance their calling a being in front of those kids. The most important job unlocking their lifelong love of learning so that they can reach their potential. Why do we ask teachers who in Texas on average take eight hundred bucks out of their own pocket not just to decorate the classroom or buy supplies for the kid who has none but also to pay for a warm meal for that child and free and reduced breakfast and lunch who does not have a dinner at home waiting for her or a new set of clothes for the kids shown up in the same set of clothes every single day. I just want her I want him to have that one job focusing on those children. When you add to that the threat of violence in those schools asking that teacher to stand between those students for whom she's already sacrificed so much and an active shooter for which we prepare in our schools back in El Paso maybe in your schools here. This is absolutely unconscionable. So let's do this let's invest in those public school educators so they just have that one job and can afford to keep it. Let's also free them from some of these high stakes high pressure standardized tests that remove days and hours of instruction and I had to wait for. You to. Give me. An answer those answers that you did.

[2169840:2270580]
Because they're spending so much time on standardized test prep. Let's make sure that to your question about a school to prison pipeline as a white man didn't experience it didn't fully understand it and I'm still learning. But but what I learned in part is that this doesn't begin in high school where I may have imagined that it did at five years old in the kindergarten classroom an African-American child stands a four to five times more more a better chance of being suspended or expelled for the same infraction as a white child. We are diminishing expectations and setting up kids to fail kids who on the first day of kindergarten already eight months back in reading comprehension 10 months back in math. So a couple of things to address this one. Let's move the starting line back universally for every child to four years old and pre-K. It's an investment but while we're making. This approach. Let's not through. Let's recruit and retain teachers who look like the students in their classroom. We have better outcomes and let's if we do that. And then lastly let's make cost no barrier to advancement after high school. Now whether that is an apprenticeship with a union go into a trade school or community college or a public four year university you should not take on a dime of debt. And again I know that this is something that New Hampshire understands best because you have the highest rate of student loan indebtedness in the country. And if you want to be a school teacher if you're willing to provide this kind of public service let's think about refinancing or wiping clean your student loan debt so you can focus on those kids so.

[2272840:2291690]
We can employ those great counterpoint on your show and whatever. And then also whatever you need to make sure that your staff on the campaign. OK.

[2291850:2400790]
Thank you. Really great question. One in five Americans living with a disability. How do we ensure that their potential their genius is reflected in the campaign that we run. And in an administration that I would lead how do we make sure that we have campaign stops that are accessible to everyone who wants to come to them. The short answer to your question is I've got to do a lot better job of making sure that everyone can come forward and contribute. My sister in special education classes every single year of her education are now living in an assisted living community. Now you know doing her best to find purpose and function and work. I've seen what that's done for her life to be able to meet some of those challenges. I know from a federal perspective when it comes to I.D. a funding in our public schools the mandate is 40 percent right now the federal government is spending 17 percent. So special education teachers those teachers who work with children with disabilities are asking to be able to do more without having the resources or the support or the additional staffing to meet that challenge. I want to make sure and this is an open call that everyone from every part of the country from every set of experiences and background can join this campaign and can be in positions of leadership in this campaign. And so through you and others who are watching this I want ensure that more Americans living with disabilities are part of the leadership in this campaign. I want to make sure that in our administration in senior positions of trust in authority there are people living with disabilities who are there. It's the best way to ensure that we have policies that match the needs and the opportunities that we have in our communities and in our country. Thank you for being here and for asking questions. We. Do want to do more.

[2401980:2422480]
To is the full benefit of everyone who's called to this country who wants to contribute their talents and their genius to our shared success. Then we need to think about how we ask people to come to this country in the first place sometimes you say why don't you just get in the back of the line and do it the way my parents or grandparents or ancestors did it.

[2422520:2440710]
We may not know when we say that but the line stretches back 20 years or more in some cases. We may also not understand that some people are literally fleeing for their lives when they come to this country and to reject them and return them to their country of origin is to send them to almost certain death and the deaths of their.

[2441280:2480950]
So in order to realize our own self economic interest and to answer the moral imperative to which each of us ultimately responds our immigration laws need to be rewritten in our own image to increase the visa caps so that more people can join their families work jobs create contribute to our economic success. We need to make sure we mentioned dreamers but that cannot come at the place of the parents of DREAMers the original dreamers. It cannot come at the cost of a two thousand mile wall or militarizing our border. We can rewrite our immigration laws in our own image from our own values to our mutual benefit. He says. Garcia.

[2484400:2490130]
Last question. You. So much.

[2490790:2494870]
When do you die. I don't know.

[2497760:2522280]
Within the criminal justice system. So. You didn't mention a little bit about how we are fighting on. This. So I want to know is how far you would go about creating a system that works for not just people that was like you but people like me as well as we did this law expunging the records of those who are already convicted suddenly. Really good question. Survey conducted that.

[2524660:2593570]
Around criminal justice and equal treatment and some expectation of equal opportunity in this country. I mentioned earlier when I was talking about criminal justice largest prison population per capita on the planet disproportionally comprised of people of color and beyond the time that they're locked up. And we're locking up their potential we're constraining them to narrowed options and choices and outcomes over the course of their life no longer qualifying for student loan very often unable to get a job after they've been forced to check a box unemployment application form. The question was asked in addition to my position to end the federal prohibition on marijuana to make sure that every veteran who returns from every conflict who does not want to be prescribed an opioid and whose doctor believes that medicinal cannabis is a better course of treatment is able to do that to make sure that we're not putting people disproportionately of color behind bars for possessing something that is legal in so many parts of the country. We must also expunge that means wiped clean the arrest records of those arrested for possession of that substance for a nonviolent drug crime.

[2593580:2626870]
But we've got to go further because it's the criminal justice system. It's that schoolhouse to jailhouse pipeline. It's a maternal mortality rate in this country. That is staggering. And two to three times as deadly for women of color. It's a fact that in this country there is 10 times the wealth in white America than there is in black America. It's the fact that we have not squarely faced the consequences. And the truth of slavery segregation of suppression that is still going on in our communities. This. Is. Going on.

[2627050:2627710]
In my mind.

[2628160:2643650]
And I want to make sure our campaign reflects that our administration reflects that. And then we work as hard as we can to bring forth the genius and the potential of every single one of us regardless of the differences. Thank you for asking the question. Thank you very much.